In the previous video, we have done create
the most simple computer network in Cisco Packet Tracer,
which is connecting two
computer. Here we have PC 0 and PC 1,
and these two PC is connected using UTP
cable. The IP Address of PC 0 is 192.168.1.1,
and the IP Address of PC 1 is 192.168.1.2
Now, in this video we are going to learn more
detail about IP Address. If you forget about IP
Address, I already say in the previous video
that IP Address is the name of computer
in the computer network. Computer will use IP
Address to communicate with other computers.
IP Address is consist of 4 parts of number.
Let’s say x.x.x.x
and each part of IP Address is number between 0 and 255.
So there is impossible to have minus number in
IP Address. It is also impossible to have number
more than 255 in IP Address. So, remember that the
number in IP Address always between 0 and 255.
The example of IP Address is that we
used in the previous video, which is 192.168.1.1.
So actually the number is not always 192,
you can use any number between 0 and 255.
And then, in the IP Address we also have
a slash like this, here I have /24.
Slash in IP Address like this is called prefix.
So the prefix for this IP Address is /24.
So what is the function of prefix? Prefix is used
to tell us how many IP Address that we can use.
In this case, the total IP Address that
we can use for prefix /24 is 256.
If you don’t know how to get 256 yet, don’t worry,
we will learn more about this in the next video.
The only thing that you need to know for now
is, that prefix is used to tell us how many IP
Address that we can use. And in this case
we can have 256 IP Address in prefix /24,
so we can have 256 computers in our computer network.
Next, we will also learn about Subnetting. So what
is Subnetting? Subnetting is used to determine
the best prefix we can use in the computer network. Let’s
say we have an office with six computers.
And we want to build a computer network between this six PC.
The question is, which prefix the best we can use?
If we use prefix /24, we know that the Total IP is
256, absolutely this is not suitable for our case.
Because we just need six IP. If we use
prefix /24, we will have 250 IP that not used.
So, which prefix is best for six IP or
six computers? The answer is /29, why?
Because in prefix /29, the Total IP is 8.
This is enough for six IP or six computers.
If you have a question, where we
get 8 from prefix /29? Once again,
you don’t need to worry about that yet, we
will learn more about that in the next video.
Okay so now I hope you understand what is IP
Address, what is prerfix, and what is subnetting.
In the next video, we are going to start learning
about subnetting.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!